-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about what we are going to build
as part of entire ALB section. Okay?
So we are going to do lots of stuff here
in step-by-step manner.
In six major sections, we are going to implement
different, different stuff here.
So let's go ahead
and then see that in a architectural representation, right?
So whenever we create a, in AWS cloud
whenever we create a EKS cluster control plane,
so what happens is, it automatically creates the VPC
and it's equivalent public and then private subnets
in respective availability zones with the NAT gateways
for outbound communication provided if your workloads
and the node groups you are creating in the private subnet.
Okay?
So now we, once we create the cluster control plane,
we'll go ahead and then create the EKS private node group.
Okay? So whenever we create that private node group,
it creates the EC2 worker nodes, one and then two.
And then these worker nodes will inside have
the automatically installed Kubernetes components related
to kubelet and then stuff, so which will communicate
with the EKS cluster control plane using NAT gateway.
So still here, we are good, right?
So now we'll move on to the workloads. Okay?
So now whenever we install the applications
or when we deploy the applications, so what happens?
So we are going to deploy three types of applications.
One is simple app one Nginx
and then app two Nginx
and one user management microservice. Okay?
So now we are going to do three deployments
with three deployment manifests
and we are going to deploy three nodeport services
for each of them.
One, one nodeport service related manifest.
So, and for user management nodeport service,
you also have something called external name service
to connect to the RDS databases.
So now once your worker node related
everything is completed, workloads are completed,
so you are going to also provision your ingress manifest
okay, so which is from Kubernetes itself, you are going to
write that ingress manifest and then kubectl apply
and then provision that ingress manifest
and what are the features available
in this ingress manifest?
It'll create a application load balancer and then,
we will also enable SSL for our application.
First we'll create a SSL certificate
in our certificate manager and then automatically
we will provide this certificate ARN
in our ingress manifest so that SSL is automatically
applied for the application load balancer,
whatever we have created.
And next thing is, so we want all our HTTP requests to
be automatically routed to HTTPS URL.
So we will implement those related changes, SSL redirect,
and also we will enable external DNS service
which is nothing but for the applications
whatever we are deploying, app one, app two
and then user management nodeport service.
I want them to be registered
with the DNS name as apps.kubeoncloud.com.
So automatically whenever I provision the ingress manifest,
it also creates a application load balancer
and also DNS registers that respective DNS name
in the route 53 automatically using the external DNS pod
running on our respective worker nodes. Okay?
So external DNS is something like
how we have ingress controller pod,
we also going to have external DNS pod.
So now to route to these respective work deployments,
it's like these respective applications,
app one, app two and then UMS.
So we are going to enable the context part based routing
inside our ingress manifest,
which is slash app one should go to app one,
slash app two should go to app two,
and slash star anything other than app one and app two
should go to user management microservice.
So we are going to implement this in our ingress manifest
and whenever users, users access HTTP URL,
it'll automatically redirect to HTTPS
because we enabled this SSL redirect option
in our application load balancer
which is our ingress service.
So now via,
it'll resolve DNS, it'll resolve to route 53
and then it'll come to application load balancer.
And if we access slash app one,
it'll go to app one application
and Saruda app one index.HTML page.
In the same way whenever we access app two,
it comes via app two context
you will verify here and then send it to nodeport service,
which is app two.
And from there, it'll end Saruda app two page
from its respective pod.
And in the same way,
if you search for anything with slash star,
nothing but we access
user management slash health status page,
so it'll come here and then access the stuff.
And if you want to list users or some database information
like create user or something, you are calling it.
So it'll come to MySQL external name service
and then it'll verify the details
from RDS database and then send it back to the user.
So this is what is the entire architecture
we are going to build as part of this entire ALB section.
Okay? So we have everything documented
in a step-by-step manner, how to install your ingress pod
and then what you need to do after ingress pod.
And then ingress manifest also.
You'll see all the things are documented
in it very step-by-step manner
and everything is implemented in a step by step manner.
Okay? So let's rock this section now.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.